---
id: jsdos-bundle
title: Bundle creation
---

:::info

<details><summary>Historical background</summary>
<p>
<br/>
Previous version (6.22) has a very simple API to run a DOS program in the browser. <br/> BUT, before start it requires perform some setup:
<ul>
<li> download game archive (usually zip) </li>
<li> extract it </li>
<li> configure dos file system </li>
<li> configure dosbox options (cycles, renderer type, etc.) </li>
<li> configure controllers (mouse, keyboard type, etc.) </li>
</ul>

Often gameplay quality depends on good configuration.
</p>
</details>

:::
 
**Starting from js-dos v7**, the API expects a `js-dos bundle` that already contains all configuration needed to start the DOS program.
`js-dos bundle` is just a **ZIP** archive that contains the game itself and a js-dos configuration file (same as dosbox.conf file). 
For example, [digger.jsdos](https://dos.zone/digger-may-06-1999/) contains: 
```
.jsdos/dosbox.conf - dosbox configuration file (required)
.jsdos/jsdos.json  - additional configuration (optional)
DIGGER.COM         - game file
```

:::info

File `.jsdos/dosbox.conf` is required. js-dos would not start if this file does not exist.

:::

You can generate a `js-dos bundle` programmatically. But, we recommend you use our [bundle generator](https://dos.zone/studio)
Moreover you can search [our database](https://dos.zone) to see if someone already uploaded a `js-dos bundle` for a program.

## Game Studio

Game Studio is part of [DOS.Zone](doszone) community project. It's a recommended tool for creating `js-dos bundles`.

`js-dos bundles` generated with game studio always support the latest features that js-dos have. It generates configuration files for you.

Bundles that are generated by game studio is not licensed, you can use them whatever you want.

[Read more](https://dos.zone/en/guide/studio) on dos.zone

## Advanced configuration


### .jsdos/dosbox.conf

:::info

File `.jsdos/dosbox.conf` is required. js-dos would not start if this file does not exist.

:::

This file is a regular [dosbox configuration](https://www.dosbox.com/wiki/Dosbox.conf). Not
all features are supported, but we will work on it.


### .jsdos/jsdos.json

This file contains additional configuration that does not exist in the dosbox configuration file.
For example, it's used to configure [virtual controls](mobile-support.md). If you used [game studio](#game-studio)
to create bundles then it will also contain all information from `dosbox.conf`. And it looks like:

```json
{
// ...
  "layers": [
    {
      "grid": "honeycomb",
      "title": "Layer#0",
      "controls": [
        {
          "row": 0,
//...
```

This file can contain any configuration that you want. You can access it with [Command Interface](command-interface).
For example:
```js
const ci = await Dos(/*element*/).run(/*bundle url*/);
const config = await ci.config();
console.log(config.layers);
```

This snippet will print information about gestures that config has. It's a very powerful feature, it can be used
to add new optional features to js-dos. Read how to add client-side features in emulators-ui [Contributing](contributing-emulators-ui) guide.
